We consider five datasets:

* Metastatic ovarian cancer [[1]](#ref1)
* Metastatic breast cancer [[2]](#ref2)
* Metastatic melanoma [[3]](#ref3)
* Metastatic prostate cancer [[4]](#ref4)
* Simulated metastatic tumors [[5]](#ref5)

## Ovarian cancer

McPherson *et al.* [[1]](#ref1) analyzed the clonal history of seven metastatic ovarian cancer patients. The authors used [PyClone](https://bitbucket.org/aroth85/pyclone/wiki/Home) to infer mutation clusters, and used these clusters to infer clone trees. Subsequently, the authors used the Sankoff algorithm to infer a single vertex labeling that minimizes the migration number.

In [`mcpherson_2016/`](mcpherson_2016/) we provide the reported clone trees as well as the reported vertex labeled. For instance, for patient1 we have the following files:

* [`patient1.tree`](mcpherson_2016/patient1.tree) is the reported clone tree
* [`patient1.labeling`](mcpherson_2016/patient1.labeling) is the reported leaf labeling
* [`patient1.reported.labeling`](mcpherson_2016/patient1.reported.labeling) is the reported vertex labeling.

## Breast cancer

Hoadley *et al.* [[2]](#ref2) analyzed two metastatic breast cancer patients ([A1](hoadley_2016/A1) and [A7](hoadley_2016/A7)). The authors focused on only the copy-neutral single-nucleotide variants, which they clustered using [SciClone](https://github.com/genome/sciclone).

The ipython notebooks for inferring the 95% confidence intervals on mutation cluster frequencies are present in the `raw` subdirectories.

## Melonama

Sanborn *et al.* [[3]](#ref3) analyzed eight metastatic melanoma patients. The ipython notebooks for identifying the copy-neutral SNVs are in the directory `sanborn_2015`.

## Prostate

Gundem *et al.* [[4]](#ref4) analyzed ten metastatic prostate cancer patients. The reported clone trees are in the `gundem_2015/reported_clonetrees` directory. The directory `gundem_2015/A22_noCNA` contains the scripts to extract the copy-neutral SNVs of patient A22.

## Simulations

Simulated data is in the directory `sims`. These data are generated by extending the agent-based model introduced by [Reiter *el al.*](#ref5).

## References
<a name="ref1"></a>
[1] McPherson *et al.* Divergent modes of clonal spread and intraperitoneal mixing in high-grade serous ovarian cancer. [*Nature Genetics*, May 2016.](http://www.nature.com/ng/journal/v48/n7/abs/ng.3573.html)

<a name="ref2"></a>
[2] Hoadley *et al.* Tumor Evolution in Two Patients with Basal-like Breast Cancer: A Retrospective Genomics Study of Multiple Metastases. [*PLOS Med*, 13(12):e1002174, December 2016.](http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371/journal.pmed.1002174)

<a name="ref3"></a>
[3] Sanborn *et al.* Phylogenetic analyses of melanoma reveal complex patterns of metastatic dissemination. [*Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America*, 112(35), September 2015.](http://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1508074112)

<a name="ref4"></a>
[4] Gundem *et al.* The evolutionary history of lethal metastatic prostate cancer. [*Nature*, 520(7547), April 2015.](http://doi.org/10.1038/nature14347)

<a name="ref5"></a>
[5] Reiter *et al.* TTP: Tool for Tumor Progression. [*CAV 2013*. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2013.](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-39799-8_6)
